README.md, before:

# Overview

Produce a list of potential colonisation systems for your minor faction in the game **Elite Dangerous**.

This consists of three command line programs (to be run in order):
1. `Colonisation.StarSystems`: This produces a list of potential colonisation systems near systems controlled by the specified minor faction. The output is CSV for easy import into Excel or a similar spreadsheet.
1. `Colonisation.Bodies`: This takes the output of `Colonisation.StarSystems` and looks up details about the bodies on EDSM. The output is in JSON, since it has a complex structure. It updates the existing output file, if any to prevent unecessary lookups, which speeds up the process.
1. `Colonisation.Points`: This takes the output of both previous commands and produces a list of systems based on an arbitrary point system to determine the most desirable systems for colonisation. The output is in a CSV.

The separation ensures long running but infrequently changing details do not impact the likely frequent fiddling and tweaking of point values.

# Use

The programs and files involved are:

```mermaid
flowchart TB
  swc@{ shape: doc, label: "systemsWithCoordinates.json"} --> cs["Colonisation.StarSystems"]
  sp@{ shape: doc, label: "systemsPopulated.json"} --> cs
  st@{ shape: doc, label: "stations.json"} --> cs
  edsm@{ shape: cyl, label: "Elite Dangerous Star Map (EDSM)"} -->|API| cb["Colonisation.Bodies"] 
  edsm -->|Daily Export| swc
  edsm -->|Daily Export| sp
  edsm -->|Daily Export| st
  cs --> ct@{ shape: doc, label: "colonisationTargets.csv"}
  cb <-->|Reads and Writes| sb@{ shape: doc, label: "systemBodies.json"}
  ct --> cb
  ct --> cp["Colonisation.Points"]
  sb --> cp
  cp --> pct@{ shape: doc, label: "prioritisedColonisationTargets.csv"}
```

1. Download and extract `systemsWithCoordinates.json` from https://www.edsm.net/dump/systemsWithCoordinates.json.gz into `Colonisation.StarSystems`. Note that this is a large file (12+ GB) at the time of writing. Such a large but rarely changing file is intentionally excluded from the git repository. The systems, particularly those within or near the bubble, are well known so this file should only need to be downloaded the first time.
1. Download and extract `systemsPopulated.json` from https://www.edsm.net/dump/systemsPopulated.json.gz into `Colonisation.StarSystems`. This file is also excluded from the git repository. It changes daily and should be redownloaded regularly.
1. Download and extract `stations.json` from https://www.edsm.net/dump/stations.json.gz into `Colonisation.StarSystems`. This file is also excluded from the git repository. This file's contents are used to detect systems being colonised by looking for a station called "System Colonisation Ship". It changes daily and should be redownloaded regularly.
1. (Optional) Change the `minorFactionName` setting in `Colonisation.StarSystems\applicationSettings.config` to the name of your minor faction. It must match **exactly**.
1. Build the solution.
1. Run "run.bat" in the root folder of the solution. This batch file will:
    1. Run `Colonisation.StarSystems`. It takes several minutes to run. By default, output is written to `colonisationTargets.csv`.
    1. Copy `colonisationTargets.csv` from the previous step into `Colonisation.Bodies` and `Colonisation.Points`. You can also load this file into any spreadsheet.
    1. Run `Colonisation.Bodies` to download relevant information about the bodies in these systems. This may take a while, mainly if https://edsm.net is busy.
    1. Copy `systemBodies.json` from the previous step into `Colonisation.Points`.
    1. Run `Colonisation.Points` to output `prioritisedColonisationTargets.csv`.

# Principles

This is a simple tool not intended for broad use. Therefore, not every parameter is stored in configuration or validated. Code is kept in a few files to keep swapping to a minimum. Error handling is minimal.

# References

1. EDSM Nightly Dumps: https://www.edsm.net/en/nightly-dumps (used in the first two steps above)
1. EDSM System APIs: https://www.edsm.net/en/api-system-v1 (called by `Colonisation.StarSystems`)
1. ED Astro dumps: https://edastro.com/mapcharts/files.html (unused but potentially useful)
1. Inara API: https://inara.cz/elite/inara-api-devguide/ (unused but potentially useful)

Commit message:

Add distance from native system to output

README.md, after:

# Overview

Produce a list of potential colonisation systems for your minor faction in the game **Elite Dangerous**.

This consists of three command line programs (to be run in order):
1. `Colonisation.StarSystems`: This produces a list of potential colonisation systems near systems controlled by the specified minor faction. The output is CSV for easy import into Excel or a similar spreadsheet.
1. `Colonisation.Bodies`: This takes the output of `Colonisation.StarSystems` and looks up details about the bodies on EDSM. The output is in JSON, since it has a complex structure. It updates the existing output file, if any to prevent unecessary lookups, which speeds up the process.
1. `Colonisation.Points`: This takes the output of both previous commands and produces a list of systems based on an arbitrary point system to determine the most desirable systems for colonisation. The output is in a CSV.

The separation ensures long running but infrequently changing details do not impact the likely frequent fiddling and tweaking of point values.

# Use

The programs and files involved are:

```mermaid
flowchart TB
  swc@{ shape: doc, label: "systemsWithCoordinates.json"} --> cs["Colonisation.StarSystems"]
  sp@{ shape: doc, label: "systemsPopulated.json"} --> cs
  st@{ shape: doc, label: "stations.json"} --> cs
  edsm@{ shape: cyl, label: "Elite Dangerous Star Map (EDSM)"} -->|API| cb["Colonisation.Bodies"] 
  edsm -->|Daily Export| swc
  edsm -->|Daily Export| sp
  edsm -->|Daily Export| st
  cs --> ct@{ shape: doc, label: "colonisationTargets.csv"}
  cb <-->|Reads and Writes| sb@{ shape: doc, label: "systemBodies.json"}
  ct --> cb
  ct --> cp["Colonisation.Points"]
  sb --> cp
  cp --> pct@{ shape: doc, label: "prioritisedColonisationTargets.csv"}
```

1. Download and extract `systemsWithCoordinates.json` from https://www.edsm.net/dump/systemsWithCoordinates.json.gz into `Colonisation.StarSystems`. Note that this is a large file (12+ GB) at the time of writing. Such a large but rarely changing file is intentionally excluded from the git repository. The systems, particularly those within or near the bubble, are well known so this file should only need to be downloaded the first time.
1. Download and extract `systemsPopulated.json` from https://www.edsm.net/dump/systemsPopulated.json.gz into `Colonisation.StarSystems`. This file is also excluded from the git repository. It changes daily and should be redownloaded regularly.
1. Download and extract `stations.json` from https://www.edsm.net/dump/stations.json.gz into `Colonisation.StarSystems`. This file is also excluded from the git repository. This file's contents are used to detect systems being colonised by looking for a station called "System Colonisation Ship". It changes daily and should be redownloaded regularly.
1. (Optional) Change the `minorFactionName` setting in `Colonisation.StarSystems\applicationSettings.config` to the name of your minor faction. It must match **exactly**.
1. (Optional) Change the `minorFactionNativeStarSystemName` setting in `Colonisation.StarSystems\applicationSettings.config` to the name of your minor faction's native system. It must match **exactly**.
1. Build the solution.
1. Run "run.bat" in the root folder of the solution. This batch file will:
    1. Run `Colonisation.StarSystems`. It takes several minutes to run. By default, output is written to `colonisationTargets.csv`.
    1. Copy `colonisationTargets.csv` from the previous step into `Colonisation.Bodies` and `Colonisation.Points`. You can also load this file into any spreadsheet.
    1. Run `Colonisation.Bodies` to download relevant information about the bodies in these systems. This may take a while, mainly if https://edsm.net is busy.
    1. Copy `systemBodies.json` from the previous step into `Colonisation.Points`.
    1. Run `Colonisation.Points` to output `prioritisedColonisationTargets.csv`.

# Principles

This is a simple tool not intended for broad use. Therefore, not every parameter is stored in configuration or validated. Code is kept in a few files to keep swapping to a minimum. Error handling is minimal.

# References

1. EDSM Nightly Dumps: https://www.edsm.net/en/nightly-dumps (used in the first two steps above)
1. EDSM System APIs: https://www.edsm.net/en/api-system-v1 (called by `Colonisation.StarSystems`)
1. ED Astro dumps: https://edastro.com/mapcharts/files.html (unused but potentially useful)
1. Inara API: https://inara.cz/elite/inara-api-devguide/ (unused but potentially useful)
